we start in the Middle East where
security forces in southern Israel have
moved to a war footing to combat a
surprise attack by the Palestinian
militant group Hamas the biggest in
recent years thousands of rockets have
been launched into Israel from Gaza and
dozens of militants appear to have
entered Southern Israel here's what we
know so far the rocket attacks have
struck Tel Aviv and areas that surround
Gaza air raid siren
have also sounded in several other towns
at least one person is reported to have
been killed so far the town of ashalon
has seen major explosions details of
Palestinian incursions are unclear but
gunmen have been reported in towns near
the Gaza border and Israel have been
sorry Israel have Israelis have been
warned to stay inside Hammer military
commander Muhammad de announced the
start of the operation in a broadcast
pass on Hamas media calling on
Palestinians everywhere to fight
Israel's prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu is holding an emergency
meeting and the military says is
striking Targets in Gaza in response
there are Palestinian reports of Israeli
soldiers being captured let me bring you
these latest pictures from Gaza they're
showing Hamas militant celebrating and
posing for pictures on what is said to
be an Israeli army tank
Palestinian media are reporting that a
number of Israelis have been taken
captive by Fighters the footage also
shows what appears to be an an Israeli
military vehicle captured by the
militants our Middle East correspondent
Jan now is in Jerusalem and told us the
size of the attacks is
unprecedented all my years of covering
these rounds of violence we haven't seen
an infiltration um on on this scale um
really it does seem from the the videos
that are circulating that there are
perhaps dozens of militants who have
crossed uh from the Gaza Strip into
Southern Israel you've got unverified TV
images that show them on motorbikes um
in pickup trucks even by H glider um now
unconfirmed reports uh from Gaza also
saying that Israelis had taken back into
the Palestinian Enclave um some Israelis
holding them captured perhaps several
soldiers we're not able to to verify
that at the moment but that would be a
very worrying development indeed for
Israelis that brings back uh memories of
what happened to gillad Shalit the
soldier who was captured in a
crossborder raid by Hamas militants back
in 2006 and was held until
2011 um now all of this looks extremely
well planned um by hamas's milit
military Wing um now you can see in some
of the videos that there are um
militants now who are um filming
themselves close to Israeli homes that
they may have taken some of those homes
over there are also videos filmed by
Israelis where you can see um people are
in the street shooting and and these
people say they can hear Arabic outside
their
windows that was your land now in
Jerusalem well for more on this Let's
cross live now to the BBC's
International editor Jeremy Bowen who's
currently live in Kiev in Ukraine Jeremy
you've covered this story the conflict
between Israel and Gaza for many years
just how significant are today's
events this is extremely significant in
all the years that Hamas have been in
control of Gaza more than 15 they have
never done anything like this they have
never launched a surprise attack uh on a
number of different locations Israeli
security officials said an hour or so
ago that there were 21 separate
incidents going on there's a lot of
video circulating not yet verified by
the BBC showing uh bodies of Israeli
soldiers uh some of whom were clearly
surprised uh in their bunks even by the
attackers uh no one was expecting Hamas
to do anything like this tension has
been rising very strongly between pal
Ians and Israelis there's been a lot of
violence in the West Bank which is the
territory that goes from Jerusalem
towards the Jordan River uh which been
occupied by Israel since
1967 uh that has been the focus now for
months and months and there's been a a
lot of killing and violence there but
nothing in comparison out of Gaza so I
think now the Israelis are using very
strong language they say they're in a
state of War they've been attacked
they've pulled up reservists they're
having this emergency meeting of their
security cabinet and I think it is
highly likely that once the Israelis um
make their plans that they will probably
mount an incursion into Gaza uh this
thing is likely to escalate and Jeremy
the big question for our viewers will be
why now because this seems to be a
coordinate coordinated attack that would
have taken a lot of planning as well why
do you think Hamas is doing
today well uh they've called it
something like operation Jerusalem flood
uh there's been tension in Jerusalem
during the recent Jewish holiday nothing
on the scale that we've seen before
where there were Palestinians being
pushed out by force out of the the
mosque there the alaxa mosque which is
the third holiest site in the world for
Muslims and it's also uh for for Jews
the site of the Jewish the ancient
Jewish temple and therefore venerated by
them it's the most single contested
piece of ground really in the entire
Middle East and uh there have been some
incidents there Jews have been praying
on the what they know as the Temple
Mount which is something which is it
doesn't sound much but it's considered
to be highly inflammatory and I think it
comes as a culmination of these growing
months and tension uh between
Palestinians and
Israelis in Jerusalem in the West Bank
and now Hamas have decided to move
there's also symbolic anniversary and in
the Middle East anniversaries are quite
a big deal it's the 50th Anniversary at
the moment of the surprise attack in
1973 by Syria and Egypt which lasted
which resulted in a Middle East War
lasting uh almost a month uh where
Israel was it was a close-run thing um
and Israelis I've spoken to today are
calling this prime minister
netanyahu's yum kipor surprise when
Israel was taken by surprise 50 years
ago and you know it could well be that
the Hamas planners thought let's try and
do something like that again thank you
very much that's our International
editor Jeremy Bowen and we look forward
to speaking to you throughout the day
here on BBC News